# Coursera_Capstone

Introduction to the opportunity

More than 3000 people die in road crashes every day worldwide, including approximately 1000 people in the United States. Such accidents cost $518 billion globally and $230.6 billion per year in the United States. In particular, many young people are affected by traffic accidents, as most traffic accidents are caused by the 15–29 age group (Association for Safe International Road Travel Data). Hence, substantial efforts have been made to address the main factors that cause traffic accidents, such as speeding, distracted driving, driver fatigue, road conditions, use of mobile phones, and poor weather conditions.
Regarding bad road conditions due to the weather, previous studies have revealed that there is a strong correlation between road friction coefficient and traffic accident risk. The friction coefficient can be influenced by road conditions such as ice or wetness caused by snow or rainfall. Research has revealed that single-vehicle accidents are mostly caused by wet weather. When a layer of water builds between the tire of a vehicle and the road surface, hydroplaning occurs. If all wheels experience hydroplaning simultaneously, the driver can no longer control the vehicle. It has been shown that hydroplaning occurs at vehicle speeds of 80 km/h on thick water films when the water depth exceeds 2.5 mm. According to the Korean Transportation Safety Authority, the total number of fatalities in road traffic accidents in the country has decreased, but rain-related road deaths increased from 430 in 2013 to 463 in 2016. In particular, in Seoul, the traffic fatality rates on rainy days were the highest among all cities.
Traffic accidents are unpredictable and can happen anywhere and at any time. However, drivers can at least be provided with useful information to help avoid accidents or reduce their probability. The forecasting of traffic accidents and the identification of related factors under various conditions are important for preventing accidents and reducing their frequency. For these reasons, traffic accident prediction models have been developed to reveal the significant factors that affect traffic accidents so that traffic safety can be improved by controlling and/or improving these factors.
